Add Governance page (#118)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: docs/governance/delegation.md

---
title: Delegation
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /governance/delegation
description: Documentation about the delegation process of the Lisk DAO.
keywords:
  [
    Lisk governance,
    Lisk DAO,
    Lisk Grants,
    Funding,
    Delegation,
    Voting,
    Proposals,
    Lisk Delegates,
    Delegates,
    Voting Power
  ]
---

# Delegation
Delegation is a key feature of the [Lisk DAO](overview), as it allows token holders to participate in the governance of the Lisk project passively by entrusting a representative with voting on [proposals](overview#proposals) in a way that aligns with their own beliefs and values.
By delegating their [voting power](overview#voting-power) to a delegate of their choice, token holders can influence that their interests are represented in the decision-making process.

However, token holders give a lot of power to the delegate to make the right decisions on proposals.
This is why it is important to choose a delegate that you trust and that you believe will act in the best interest of the Lisk project and the community.

> We recommend to choose a delegate that is active in the community, has a good reputation, and has a track record of making good decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend choosing a delegate who is active in the community, has a good reputation, and has a track record of making good decisions.
```

The following sources might support you in your delegation decision:

- [Lisk Chat](https://lisk.chat): Get in touch with your delegate in the Lisk chat, or ask other users about their experiences with the delegate.
- [Lisk Governance Forum](https://forum.lisk.com/c/delegates/): The Lisk Governance Forum provides a section for delegates to present themselves to the community.

> - **Lisk DAO Tally instance**: Check the delegate's profile, voting history and activity on the Lisk DAO Tally instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Lisk DAO Tally instance**: Check the delegate's profile, voting history, and activity on the Lisk DAO Tally instance.
```

<!-- TODO: Add link to Lisk delegates on Tally -->
<!-- 1. Connect your wallet to Tally and navigate to the [Lisk DAO delegates](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/<DAO name>/delegates) page. -->
1. Connect your wallet to Tally and navigate to the **Lisk DAO delegates** page.
2. Search for the delegate you'd like to delegate your voting power to.
3. Click the "delegate" button on the delegate's profile.
3. Confirm the delegation by following Tally's prompts.

:::tip
Through Tally, you can change or revoke your delegation at any time. 
:::

## Responsibility of delegates
Delegates play a crucial role in the governance of the Lisk project.
They are the ones who create [proposals](overview#proposals), vote on behalf of the token holders, and represent the interests of the community as a whole.

Delegates are required to:

- Follow the processes outlined in the Governance documentation of the Lisk DAO
- Act in the best interest of the token holders whom they represent
- Be active in the decision-making process of the DAO, this means specifically:
  - Vote on proposals

Excellent delegates will do even more than that, for example:

- Create proposals
- Give feedback on draft proposals

> - Engage activly with the Lisk community online and/or offline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Engage actively with the Lisk community online and/or offline
```

## Benefits of being a delegate

- **Impact**: 
  - Have influence on the direction of the Lisk project.
  - Ensure that the Lisk DAO acts in the best interest of the Lisk community.
  - Decide directly about fund allocation of the Lisk DAO treasury.
  {/* TODO: Confirm rewards */}
<!-- {/* - **Rewards**:
  - Being a delegate is required for some LSK air drops.
  - Being a delegate can be benefitial e.g. when applying for the Grant or Ambassador programs.
  - Receive extra rewards for being an excellent delegate (e.g., being most active/constructive, having most delegations, etc). */} -->
- **Reputation**:
  - Gain a trustworthy reputation by being an active delegate.

<!-- {/* TODO: Create guide */}
{/* For more information, check the guide on [How to delegate your voting power] */} -->

## How to become a delegate 🚀

> Basically anyone who is able to accumulate some voting power can become a delegate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anyone who can accumulate some voting power can become a delegate.
```

All you need to do is to set up a profile on the Lisk DAO Tally instance.

To get some initial [voting power](overview#voting-power), you can either: 

* stake some LSK tokens and then **self-delegate** or
* **receive delegations** from other users on your Tally profile

However, in order to create proposals, a delegate must meet the threshold of at least 300,000 vpLSK.

> If you wish to increase your voting power to be able to create your own proposals and/or to have more influence on votings, it is possible to get delegations from other users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wish to increase your voting power to be able to create your own proposals and/or to have more influence on voting, it is possible to get delegations from other users.
```
